# [YACLL](https://github.com/srajan0149/YACLL)
Yet Another C Like Language

## Requirements

1. flex (Fast Lexical Analyzer Generator)

2. bison (GNU parser generator, yacc-compatible)

3. gcc (GNU C Compiler)

4. POSIX-compatible operating system (we worked on Linux through WSL)

## Build Instructions

Run the command below to execute the Makefile.
```bash
make yapl
```

Remove generated build artifacts:
```bash
make clean
```
## Test Instructions

The folder testcases has many test files along with the output of the lexer when given those testcases. Some important test files are: 
- `test_valid.c` - this tests the lexer on detecting all possible tokens even when padded with whitespace
- `test_invalid_comment.c` - tests whether the lexer can detect invalid comment syntax
- `test_invalid_identifier.c` - tests whether lexer can detect invalid identifier naming

The following code displays how to run the lexer on `test_valid.c`, another test file name can be swapped for `test_valid.c` to test another file.
```Shell
./yapl test_valid.c
```
## Generated Artifacts
After a successful parse, YACLL writes:

### parsing_table.csv
Combined ACTION + GOTO parsing table extracted from y.output

### derivation.dot
Derivation tree in Graphviz DOT format

### derivation.png
Generated only when Graphviz dot is installed and available in PATH

## Important Files

### yapl.l
This is the lex specification file. It contains the definition of tokens required by the language specification and specific instructions to execute when particular regular expression are matched with the input sequence.

### yapl.y
This is the yacc specification file. It defines the grammar of the language, i.e., how the tokens fit together syntactically.

### lex.yy.c
This is a file generated by the command `flex yapl.l`. It contains C code that implements the actual lexer. It uses the regular expressions used to describe tokens to actually create a program which can identify those tokens and behave accordingly.

### parser_debug.h, parser_debug.c
Parser tracing, reduction tracking, derivation export to DOT/PNG

### lalr_table.h, lalr_table.c
y.output parsing, expected token extraction, CSV table export

### parser_diag.h, parser_diag.c
Syntax diagnostics and context hints

